Pacifism licence in a nutshell (this doesn't override the licence, but offers clarification on it):

1) Program is public domain, subject to agreement
2) Patents/ideas are not public domain
3) You can re-use, distribute, modify and sell the Program, subject to agreement
4) There's no liabilities or warranties
5) You're not required to release the source code of any derivative works, but if you do,
   you must publish it with the aforementioned copyright licence
6) The program itself, in part or in whole, must not be used to cause:
   a) intentionally and destructive
   b) death or physical harm
7) Anyone can sue on the behalf of this licence to enforce it's terms.

For those of you wondering 'isn't all death/harm destructive?', we note exemptions:

1) Medical procedures, whose goal in certain operations causes physical harm but is intended to be
   largely non-destructive, but is an intentional harm (we exclude euthanasia and abortion from this
   exemption because both cause an intentional death akin to murder, which pacifism shuns).
   
2) Switching off life support machines and following do not resuscitate orders. Even though the act
   is intentional, and results in death, in the first case, it assumed the person is already technically
   dead, in the second, because it's a passive action: trying to resuscitate a person causes additional
   damage to their body, and people will ask they not be resuscitated. Pacifism does not use brute force
   and thus forcibly resuscitating them against their wishes violates pacifism. The cause of death is
   arguably also naturally occurring (IE natural causes is the thing killing them). To demand people
   always attempt to save lives is unreasonable, and thus the burden is simply not to purposefully take
   an active course of action that results in death.
   
3) Unintentional deaths happen, and this licence is against active killing/harm, not people who make grave
   mistakes, which humans are bound to do. In the event intention is unknown, the licence presumes 
   innocence over guilt, especially in cases of medical procedures.
   
4) The specifier here is purposefully designed not to entirely exclude the military. At first glance this
   might seem like a contradiction between pacifism and the military, however there are some roles the
   military conducts (such as delivering food aid to starving regions) which are in-line with pacifism.
   This also prevents the total exclusion of law enforcement activities (arguably military in some cases)
   by allowing passive systems (EG detective work, research, booking, processes, etc) to use it. Think of it
   as a means to encourage more upstanding (IE less violent) behaviour in such communities.
   
5) Direct or indirect is purposefully omitted in the licence, because 'cause' is a moral grey area. We rely
   on a normally uninterruptable 'chain of causation'. For example, consider a police officer who books in a 
   criminal using the Program, who ends up convicted, and gets the death penalty. If the licence said 'indirect', 
   people would presume it had indirectly caused this situation, and thus violates the terms - which is against this
   licence's intentions (the police officer isn't responsible for the judge's punishment decisions nor the findings
   of the trial - the chain is interruptable). However, if someone had used the software to aid in the locating
   of a fetus for the purposes of abortion, we would consider this a violation of the licence terms (the chain -
   locating the fetus for the purposes of abortion - is uninterruptable in the causation of death).
   
   So in this context, 'cause of harm' and 'cause of death' refer to an uninterruptable 'chain of causation' 
   that ultimately leads to an intentional death or physical harm, even if the software isn't used in the
   final act that leads to harm or death.
   
6) Physical harm is specified instead of just harm, largely because we live in an era where even the slightest
   verbal or emotional disagreement or 'infringement' is being redefined as a 'harm'. For pacifism to function,
   open, honest debate (even offensive) has to be allowed to exist, as part and parcel of negotiations and
   diplomacy. People who cannot express themselves will bottle it up, and then unexpectedly lash out, and in this
   era of hypersensitivities, we do not want to open up anyone to a possible lawsuit simply because someone
   got 'offended' or 'emotionally harmed'.
   
   Whilst we recognise that agencies, organisations, corporations etc can induce campaigns of egarious emotional,
   psychological, verbal and even propaganda abuse, this isn't intended to be a 'perfect licence', and based on 
   litigation within the US, it is our opinion that it's far more likely that 'emotional harm' will be used in
   frivilous lawsuits and ergo it is explicitly denied (by the phrasing of 'physical') in the pacifism licence.
   
   Physical harm is therefore defined, because it is an objective, measurable standard that can be easily documented,
   shown for all to see. This is primarily what pacifism aims to oppose anyway.
   
 Why can 'anyone sue on behalf of this licence'?
 
 1) In the era of patent trolls, they can serve a useful purpose if directed correctly. In this case, the 
    enforcement of the above terms 'by anyone' serves as an overall general looming litigation threat, so
    rather than them assuming 'that pacifist ain't gunna do nothing', it's instead opened to everyone to
    utilise (encouraging non-pacifist organisation who exploit pacifists to adopt pacifism ideals to avoid
    legal non-pacifists. Beautiful irony, no?).
    
    This also means that, any individuals physically harmed by the software being abused against it's intentions
    have a means of recourse. This allows both directly harmed individuals a means of recourse, as well as legal
    eagle pacifism style (or at least anti-war) organisations to help counter it's abuse. I build this software
    to save lives, and I have to at least give it some teeth (even if only legally speaking) if it's
    to live up to that expectation.
    
 2) If I end up 'popping my clogs' (something any non-pacifist organisation is inclined to do), I don't want the
    pacifism licence becoming unenforceable. It also means anyone can adopt the licence, knowing that anyone else
    can end up enforcing it. 
    
 3) It means anyone working on a project in secret that has stolen this code for destructive harm will have read
    the licence and therefore would be able to sue the company they work for, for violation of the terms.
    
 If the derivative source code is not required to be available for publishing, why must the licence be included 
 with if it's ever published?
 
 1) We don't agree with forcing organisations to publish code they've worked on for years with the possibility
    that rivals might end up stealing it, so we've removed this as a mandate. However, for people to know that
    the code falls under the pacifism public licence, they must have some way of finding out. So we include the
    provision that any derivative works that get published (IE the source code) include the pacifism licence.
    
 2) This prevents 'stolen code' communities who try to hide the fact they have a pacifism licenced piece of software,
    from publicly sharing it anywhere (even with another company) without disclosing the fact they have used it.
    This forces 'stolen code' communities to have to keep it constantly secret (and thus receive no help) or publish
    the full legal notice, which of course includes the ability to be sued by anyone for violation of the terms and 
    conditions.
    
 If the Program is basically public domain, why aren't the patents?
 
  1) The patents/ideas aren't licenced under this because it would be extremely difficult to police. Evidence of
     software malappropriation should suffice. Trying to evidence stolen ideas is a horrible mess, so we don't
     offer them up to the public, period.
